== Online failover rails
=== Why ?
Online.net, our hosting provider, has a pretty interface to manage failovers, but not really handy when it comes to manage an entire host, or many
guests on a heavy-loaded host. In the heat of the moment, it's hard to remember which ip has to be switched, and to which host.
With this tool, you can name your servers and failovers, and configure in advance your preferred backup server for each guest.

After this (very) little configuration, you are ready to failover your guests or an entire host, with one button, and failback
when the "master" host is operational again.

Recent add : you can now add uri to be tested roughly (nmap + netcat on 80 and 443) to check whether your services are up or not.
To do that, simply click on a failover (IP) and add your services with ports (usually 80, 443, 25, 21, 22).

This app is intented to be installed locally, so there's no authentication system yet.

=== Installation - you may :

* Clone the repo
* Execute 'bundle install'
* Execute 'rails generate initializer' to create the config files
* Put your online api token in /config/initalizers/online_token.rb
* Execute 'rake db:migrate'
* Then start the project : 'rails s' in development mode.
* Once started, navigate the rails app root.

=== How to use

* Click once on "Snapshot Online setup", this will import your servers and failovers locally.
* Assign a backup server for each failover. You can also set a name to each server and/or failover to make it more human readable :)
* You can now failover, only an app or a whole host.
* By clicking the IP, you can add some services to test.
* Execute 'RAILS_ENV=production bin/rake pinger:test_all' or add it to crontab to test your services and report their state in web interface.
* You can alter /config/initalizers/event_bus.rb to trigger some events when a service fails (SMS or email alert, ssh commands...) 

=== TODO

* Add an authentication system (devise ?)
* Write some tests
* Handle errors in a better way
* Do some translations
* Use OAuth instead of API token
* Make the Snapshot button refresh the local failovers (if switch was made directly on online.net console)

Author : Slash4 from Jumboweb
